README.md, before:

# Silbiger Lab General Protocols

## General protocols and manuals used by the Silbiger Lab for various research projects and equipment  

## Physiological Protocols  
* [Ash Free Dry Weight](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/AFDW_SOP.md)
  * [Box Furnace Procedure](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Furnace_SOP.md)
* [Chlorophyll Extraction](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Chlorophyll_SOP.md)
* [Symbiont Cell Counts](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Counts_SOP.md) 
* [Tissue Removal](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Tissue_removal_SOP.md)
* [Tissue N Content](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Tissue_N_content_SOP.md)
* [Respirometry protocol](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Respirometry_Protocol)

## Environmental Parameter Protocols  
* [Nutrients in situ](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/In_situ_nutrients_SOP.md)
* [Macroalgal CHN Content](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Macroalgal_CHN_SOP.md)
* [Sedimentation Rates](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Sedimentation_rates_SOP.md)
* [Volume Dye Method Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Volume_Dye_Method)
* [RAD7 Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/RAD7_Protocol)
* [RAD Float Setup](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/RAD_Float_Setup.md) 
* [Light Spectrum Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Light_Spectrum)
* [Sub-surface Automated Sampler Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/SAS_Protocol.md) 

## Intertidal Ecosystem Function Protocols  
* [Tide Pool Water Sampling](Intertidal_Ecosystem_Function_Protocols/TidePoolSampling_SOP.md)

## Probe and Logger Protocols  
* [YSI 2030 Calibration](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/YSI_2030/YSI2030_Calibration_SOP.md)
* [Orion Calibration](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/Orion_Multiparameter_Sensor/Orion_Calibration_SOP.md)
* [HOBO Conductivity and Temperature Logger](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/HOBO_CT_Loggers)
* [HOBO Depth/Pressure Logger](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/HOBO_Depth_Loggers)
* [HOBO pH Logger](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/HOBO_pH_Logger)
* [LI-COR PAR Sensor](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/LI-COR_PAR_Sensor_Manual)
* [miniDOT Oxygen Sensor](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/miniDOT_Oxygen_Sensors)

## Titration Protocols  
[Titration Repository](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator)  
* [Titrator SOP](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/TitratorSOP.md)
* [Automatically transfer weights from mettler balance to titrator or excel file](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/BalanceSOP.md)
* [Acid washing bottles](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/AcidWashing.md)
* [Mixing Mercuric Chloride solution for poisoning water samples](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/Mercuric_Chloride_SOP.md)

## Spectrophotometer Protocols  
* [m-Cresol Purple Protocol](Spectrophotometer_Protocols/mCresol_Purple_Protocol.md)
 
[SpectraMax iD3 Repository](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec)  
* [Startup Procedures](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Startup_SOP.md)
* [Plate Read Setup](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Plate_Read_Setup_SOP.md)
* [Preparing the Well Plate](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Prepare_Well_Plate_SOP.md)
* [Export Data](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Export_Data_SOP.md)  

[UV 2450 Spectrophotometer Protocol (Mo'orea and Polyp Lab)](UV_2450_Spectrophotometer/UV_2450_SpecSOP.md)  

## Reference Manuals  
* [Box Furnace](References_and_Manuals/BF51800_Box_Furnace_Manual)
* [RAD7 and RAD aqua](References_and_Manuals/RAD7_and_RADaqua_Manual)
* [Respirometry](References_and_Manuals/Respirometry_Manual)
* [LI-COR PAR Sensor](References_and_Manuals/LI-COR_PAR_Sensor_Manual)
* [miniDOT Oxygen Sensor](References_and_Manuals/miniDOT_Oxygen_Sensor_Manual)
* [HOBO Conductivity and Temperature Logger](References_and_Manuals/HOBO_Conductivity_Logger)
* [HOBO Pressure/Depth Logger](References_and_Manuals/HOBO_Pressure_Logger)
* [HOBO pH Logger](References_and_Manuals/HOBO_pH_Logger)
* [SpectraMax iD3](References_and_Manuals/SpectraMax_iD3_Manual)
* [Spectronic Genesys 5](References_and_Manuals/Spectronic_Genesys_5_Manual)
* [Smart Spec 3000](References_and_Manuals/Smart_Spec_3000_Manual)

Commit message:

Added links to the student guide and moorea guide

README.md, after:

# Silbiger Lab General Protocols

## General protocols and manuals used by the Silbiger Lab for various research projects and equipment  

## Physiological Protocols  
* [Ash Free Dry Weight](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/AFDW_SOP.md)
  * [Box Furnace Procedure](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Furnace_SOP.md)
* [Chlorophyll Extraction](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Chlorophyll_SOP.md)
* [Symbiont Cell Counts](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Counts_SOP.md) 
* [Tissue Removal](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Tissue_removal_SOP.md)
* [Tissue N Content](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Tissue_N_content_SOP.md)
* [Respirometry protocol](Physiological_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Respirometry_Protocol)

## Environmental Parameter Protocols  
* [Nutrients in situ](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/In_situ_nutrients_SOP.md)
* [Macroalgal CHN Content](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Macroalgal_CHN_SOP.md)
* [Sedimentation Rates](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Sedimentation_rates_SOP.md)
* [Volume Dye Method Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Volume_Dye_Method)
* [RAD7 Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/RAD7_Protocol)
* [RAD Float Setup](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/RAD_Float_Setup.md) 
* [Light Spectrum Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/Light_Spectrum)
* [Sub-surface Automated Sampler Protocols](Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/SAS_Protocol.md) 

## Intertidal Ecosystem Function Protocols  
* [Tide Pool Water Sampling](Intertidal_Ecosystem_Function_Protocols/TidePoolSampling_SOP.md)

## Probe and Logger Protocols  
* [YSI 2030 Calibration](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/YSI_2030/YSI2030_Calibration_SOP.md)
* [Orion Calibration](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/Orion_Multiparameter_Sensor/Orion_Calibration_SOP.md)
* [HOBO Conductivity and Temperature Logger](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/HOBO_CT_Loggers)
* [HOBO Depth/Pressure Logger](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/HOBO_Depth_Loggers)
* [HOBO pH Logger](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/HOBO_pH_Logger)
* [LI-COR PAR Sensor](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/LI-COR_PAR_Sensor_Manual)
* [miniDOT Oxygen Sensor](Probe_and_Logger_Protocols/miniDOT_Oxygen_Sensors)

## Titration Protocols  
[Titration Repository](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator)  
* [Titrator SOP](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/TitratorSOP.md)
* [Automatically transfer weights from mettler balance to titrator or excel file](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/BalanceSOP.md)
* [Acid washing bottles](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/AcidWashing.md)
* [Mixing Mercuric Chloride solution for poisoning water samples](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Titrator/blob/master/Protocols/Mercuric_Chloride_SOP.md)

## Spectrophotometer Protocols  
* [m-Cresol Purple Protocol](Spectrophotometer_Protocols/mCresol_Purple_Protocol.md)
 
[SpectraMax iD3 Repository](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec)  
* [Startup Procedures](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Startup_SOP.md)
* [Plate Read Setup](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Plate_Read_Setup_SOP.md)
* [Preparing the Well Plate](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Prepare_Well_Plate_SOP.md)
* [Export Data](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/pH_Spec/blob/master/Protocols/Export_Data_SOP.md)  

[UV 2450 Spectrophotometer Protocol (Mo'orea and Polyp Lab)](UV_2450_Spectrophotometer/UV_2450_SpecSOP.md)  

## Mo'orea Guides
[Private Repository for navigating Mo'orea travel](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Student_Lab_Guide/tree/master/Moorea_Guide)

## Student Resources
[Private Repository with guides and information for students navigating a CSUN Biology Masters degree program](https://github.com/SilbigerLab/Student_Lab_Guide)

## Reference Manuals  
* [Box Furnace](References_and_Manuals/BF51800_Box_Furnace_Manual)
* [RAD7 and RAD aqua](References_and_Manuals/RAD7_and_RADaqua_Manual)
* [Respirometry](References_and_Manuals/Respirometry_Manual)
* [LI-COR PAR Sensor](References_and_Manuals/LI-COR_PAR_Sensor_Manual)
* [miniDOT Oxygen Sensor](References_and_Manuals/miniDOT_Oxygen_Sensor_Manual)
* [HOBO Conductivity and Temperature Logger](References_and_Manuals/HOBO_Conductivity_Logger)
* [HOBO Pressure/Depth Logger](References_and_Manuals/HOBO_Pressure_Logger)
* [HOBO pH Logger](References_and_Manuals/HOBO_pH_Logger)
* [SpectraMax iD3](References_and_Manuals/SpectraMax_iD3_Manual)
* [Spectronic Genesys 5](References_and_Manuals/Spectronic_Genesys_5_Manual)
* [Smart Spec 3000](References_and_Manuals/Smart_Spec_3000_Manual)
