UV_2450_Spectrophotometer/UV_2450_SpecSOP.md, before:

# Standard protocol for the UV-2450 spectrophotometer

Original: 20181112
Last Revised: 20181112

Contents
- [**Materials**](#Materials) 
- [**Protocol**](#Protocol)
- [**References**](#References)
 
1. <a name="Materials"></a> **Materials**  
    1. 	Shimadzu UV 2450 spectrophotometer
    1.  Desktop computer
    1.  UV Probe software
    1.  3mL glass cuvettes  
    1.  Blank solution
    	1. Chlorophyll: 100% acetone
    	2. pH using the m-cresol method: DI water
    1.  Chiller (attached to spectrophotometer)

2. <a name="Protocol"></a> **Protocol**  
    1. 	Turn the chiller switch to ON
    1.  All the square coils must be submerged in water, usually are already but double check before turning on
    1.  The chiller should be set to 25°C
    1.  Open the UV Probe program and press CONNECT once loaded, takes around 10 minutes to warm up and go through automatic checks.  All checks need to be green before you begin (if the Mo'orea spec has any errors, notify Kathryn Scafidi at kathryn.scafidi@csun.edu).
    1.  Fine to leave spec on as you set up samples and organize 
    1.  Once everything is green, click OK
    1.  Then click on the icon with a circle and capital M in the middle for 'Methods'
    1.  Add three wavelengths as your WL points
    	1.  Chlorophyll: 630nm, 663nm, 750nm
    	2.  pH using the m-cresol method: 730nm, 578nm, 434nm
    1.  Set next screen to MULTIPOINT and 3WL and select desired WL from the dropdown menus
    1.  Click next 
    1.  Keep standard settings 
    1.  Click next
    1.  Keep standard settings
    1.  Click next 
    1.  Select the three dots next to filename and create new folder on desktop, open and add file labeled YourName_Date_SampleType.pho to save there
    1.  Make sure to save information throughout the reading process in case of power failure, etc.
    1.  Click finish and then close
    1.  Only touching the frosted side of the cuvette (transparent side has arrows), fill empty cuvette with 3 mL of your blank
    	1. Chlorophyll: acetone
    	2. pH using the m-cresol method: DI water
    1.  Open spectrophotometer slide top
    1.  Use the front black cuvette holder, gently remove the top  
    1.  Place cuvette into the cuvette holder, cover with black top
    1.  Make sure outside of cuvette is clean and free of bubbles. Only use kimwipes to clean the cuvette
    1.  Close spectrophotometer sliding top
    1.  Make sure to always keep the slide top closed when not in use
    1.  Once the blank is in the cuvette holder, select the Baseline button in program, set starting WL to 800 and ending WL to 300 or pick a desired range that includes the WL you want to measure, then press OK
    1.  Baseline takes around 2 minutes to run through, do this once 
    1.  After running the Baseline, make a label for sample ID under the SAMPLE TABLE not STANDARD TABLE, the Sample table is usually underneath Standard, but you can enlarge the Sample Table for convenience
    1.  Once you run the Baseline, run the same blank again, this time pressing the READ UNKNOWN button to make sure it reads 0 under all wavelengths in your sample ID row 1 (label sample ID as Blank.1, the number should correspond to which sample set you are doing) 
    1.  Label the sample ID row 2, 3 and 4 for each replicate you do (ex: T1.1, T1.2, T1.3 for colony tissue sample 1, replicate 1, 2 and 3)
    	1. for pH measurements using the m-cresol method: label three rows for triplicate seawater samples, then label the next three rows for those same samples with added m-cresol dye, such that you have 6 labeled rows for each sample set. (ex. S1.1.nodye, S1.2.nodye, S1.3.nodye, S1.1.dye, S1.2.dye, S1.3.dye)
    1.  Take out blank and dispose of it in the appropriate waste container (or pour down the sink if DI). 
    1.  Pipette 3mL of first sample into cuvette, repeat the last 2 steps for your samples using appropriate sample labels
    1.  Press the READ UNKNOWN button, repeat with each sample for each sample set.
    	1. for pH measurements using the m-cresol method: in 3mL of seawater or tris, add 50uL of m-cresol dye and allow to diffuse
    1.  In between each sample set with 3 replicates, run a blank of DI and press the READ UNKNOWN button to make sure it reads 0 for all wavelengths before running next sample set
    1.  Make sure to save the data throughout the sampling period, also copy all values down into the notebook
    	1. To save the data, copy and paste cells from the output sample table into an excel sheet
    1.  Press the DISCONNECT button when finished
    1.  Exit the program 
    1.  Switch the chiller and spectrophotometer switches to OFF
    1.  Dispose of samples with acetone in appropriate waste containers, clean up your area and leave the computer ON

3. <a name="References"></a> **References**

Information on UV-2450 spectrophotometer
http://www.masontechnology.ie/files/documents/SHIM6.pdf

Commit message:

added locational info for computer password

UV_2450_Spectrophotometer/UV_2450_SpecSOP.md, after:

# Standard protocol for the UV-2450 spectrophotometer

Original: 20181112
Last Revised: 20181112

Contents
- [**Materials**](#Materials) 
- [**Protocol**](#Protocol)
- [**References**](#References)
 
1. <a name="Materials"></a> **Materials**  
    1. 	Shimadzu UV 2450 spectrophotometer
    1.  Desktop computer
    1.  UV Probe software
    1.  3mL glass cuvettes  
    1.  Blank solution
    	1. Chlorophyll: 100% acetone
    	2. pH using the m-cresol method: DI water
    1.  Chiller (attached to spectrophotometer)

2. <a name="Protocol"></a> **Protocol**  
    1. 	Turn the chiller switch to ON
    1.  All the square coils must be submerged in water, usually are already but double check before turning on
    1.  The chiller should be set to 25°C
    1.  Open the UV Probe program and press CONNECT once loaded, takes around 10 minutes to warm up and go through automatic checks.  All checks need to be green before you begin (if the Mo'orea spec has any errors, notify Kathryn Scafidi at kathryn.scafidi@csun.edu).
    	1. If the computer requires a log in password, look under the keyboard.
    1.  Fine to leave spec on as you set up samples and organize 
    1.  Once everything is green, click OK
    1.  Then click on the icon with a circle and capital M in the middle for 'Methods'
    1.  Add three wavelengths as your WL points
    	1.  Chlorophyll: 630nm, 663nm, 750nm
    	2.  pH using the m-cresol method: 730nm, 578nm, 434nm
    1.  Set next screen to MULTIPOINT and 3WL and select desired WL from the dropdown menus
    1.  Click next 
    1.  Keep standard settings 
    1.  Click next
    1.  Keep standard settings
    1.  Click next 
    1.  Select the three dots next to filename and create new folder on desktop, open and add file labeled YourName_Date_SampleType.pho to save there
    1.  Make sure to save information throughout the reading process in case of power failure, etc.
    1.  Click finish and then close
    1.  Only touching the frosted side of the cuvette (transparent side has arrows), fill empty cuvette with 3 mL of your blank
    	1. Chlorophyll: acetone
    	2. pH using the m-cresol method: DI water
    1.  Open spectrophotometer slide top
    1.  Use the front black cuvette holder, gently remove the top  
    1.  Place cuvette into the cuvette holder, cover with black top
    1.  Make sure outside of cuvette is clean and free of bubbles. Only use kimwipes to clean the cuvette
    1.  Close spectrophotometer sliding top
    1.  Make sure to always keep the slide top closed when not in use
    1.  Once the blank is in the cuvette holder, select the Baseline button in program, set starting WL to 800 and ending WL to 300 or pick a desired range that includes the WL you want to measure, then press OK
    1.  Baseline takes around 2 minutes to run through, do this once 
    1.  After running the Baseline, make a label for sample ID under the SAMPLE TABLE not STANDARD TABLE, the Sample table is usually underneath Standard, but you can enlarge the Sample Table for convenience
    1.  Once you run the Baseline, run the same blank again, this time pressing the READ UNKNOWN button to make sure it reads 0 under all wavelengths in your sample ID row 1 (label sample ID as Blank.1, the number should correspond to which sample set you are doing) 
    1.  Label the sample ID row 2, 3 and 4 for each replicate you do (ex: T1.1, T1.2, T1.3 for colony tissue sample 1, replicate 1, 2 and 3)
    	1. for pH measurements using the m-cresol method: label three rows for triplicate seawater samples, then label the next three rows for those same samples with added m-cresol dye, such that you have 6 labeled rows for each sample set. (ex. S1.1.nodye, S1.2.nodye, S1.3.nodye, S1.1.dye, S1.2.dye, S1.3.dye)
    1.  Take out blank and dispose of it in the appropriate waste container (or pour down the sink if DI). 
    1.  Pipette 3mL of first sample into cuvette, repeat the last 2 steps for your samples using appropriate sample labels
    1.  Press the READ UNKNOWN button, repeat with each sample for each sample set.
    	1. for pH measurements using the m-cresol method: in 3mL of seawater or tris, add 50uL of m-cresol dye and allow to diffuse
    1.  In between each sample set with 3 replicates, run a blank of DI and press the READ UNKNOWN button to make sure it reads 0 for all wavelengths before running next sample set
    1.  Make sure to save the data throughout the sampling period, also copy all values down into the notebook
    	1. To save the data, copy and paste cells from the output sample table into an excel sheet
    1.  Press the DISCONNECT button when finished
    1.  Exit the program 
    1.  Switch the chiller and spectrophotometer switches to OFF
    1.  Dispose of samples with acetone in appropriate waste containers, clean up your area and leave the computer ON

3. <a name="References"></a> **References**

Information on UV-2450 spectrophotometer
http://www.masontechnology.ie/files/documents/SHIM6.pdf
