Probe_Calibration_Protocols/YSI2030_Calibration_SOP.md, before:

# Standard protocol for YSI multi-parameter prometer calibration
Original: 20190530
Last Revised: 20190530

Contents
1. [**Materials**](#Materials)  
1. [**Protocol**](#Protocol)
1. [**References**](#References)
 
***
1. <a name="Materials"></a> **Materials**
  *  YSI Pro2030 multiparameter prometer (measures Dissolved Oxygen, Conductivity, Salinity, and temperature)
  *  YSI 3169 Conductivity Calibrator solution (50,000 microsiemens/cm +/- 1% at 25 &deg; C
  *  YSI Pro2030 Quick Start Guide

*** 
2. <a name="Protocol"></a> **Protocol**

	1. Calibrate probe 24 hours before sampling. You will only be calibrating the conductivity of the probe.
   	1. Attach cable with probe to meter. 
    1. Fill tall container with fresh, traceable YSI 3169 conductivity calibration solution. The conductivity sensor is located at the top of the probe and will need to be submerged in the solution.
    1. Place sensor into solution. Make sure probe is entirely submered in the solution. Gently agitate the probe to remove any air bubbles from conductivity sensor. 
    1. Turn the instrument on and allow the conductitiy and temperature readings to stabilize. Press the Cal key. Highlight Conducivity and press enter.
    1. Highlight the desired calibration method Sp. Conductance and press enter. 
    1. Highlight units you wish to calibrate (mS/cm) and press enter. Use the up and down arrow to enter the value of conductivity solution at 25 &deg; C (which should be 50,000 ms/cm)
    1. The Pro2030 will remember the calibration value and display it the next time you calibrate the probe. 
    1. Press enter to complete the calibration. Or press Cal to cancel the calibration. 
    1. 'Calibration successful' will display for a few sectonds to indicate successful calibration and then the instrument will return to the home screen. 
    1.  If unsuccessful, an error message will appear. See troubleshooting guide for solutions.
    
***
3. <a name="References"></a> **References**

  *  YSI Pro2030 Quick Start Guide

Commit message:

Added calibration for DO and User Manual link

Probe_Calibration_Protocols/YSI2030_Calibration_SOP.md, after:

# Standard protocol for YSI multi-parameter prometer calibration
Original: 20190530
Last Revised: 20190530

Contents
1. [**Materials**](#Materials)  
1. [**Protocol**](#Protocol)
1. [**References**](#References)
 
***
1. <a name="Materials"></a> **Materials**
  *  YSI Pro2030 multiparameter prometer (measures Dissolved Oxygen, Conductivity, Salinity, and temperature)
  *  YSI 3169 Conductivity Calibrator solution (50,000 microsiemens/cm +/- 1% at 25 &deg; C
  *  YSI Pro2030 Quick Start Guide

*** 
2. <a name="Protocol"></a> **Protocol**

	1. Calibrating conductivity
	  1. Calibrate <24 hours before sampling.
   	1. Connect cable with probe to handheld meter. 
    1. Fill tall container (ex. graduated cylinder) with new, traceable YSI 3169 conductivity calibration solution. The conductivity sensor is located at the top of the probe and will need to be submerged in the solution.
    1. Remove the gray slip covering the probe and fully submerge probe in the solution. Make sure probe is entirely submered in the solution. Gently agitate the probe to remove any air bubbles from conductivity sensor. 
    1. Turn the instrument on and allow the conductitiy and temperature readings to stabilize. Press the Cal key. Highlight Conducivity and press enter.
    1. Highlight the desired calibration method Sp. Conductance and press enter. 
    1. Highlight units you wish to calibrate (uS/cm) and press enter. Use the up and down arrow to enter the value of conductivity solution at 25 &deg; C (check the calibration solution for value [i.e. 50,000 us/cm])
    1. The Pro2030 will remember the calibration value and display it the next time you calibrate the probe. 
    1. Press enter to complete the calibration. Or press Cal to cancel the calibration. 
    1. 'Calibration successful' will display for a few sectonds to indicate successful calibration and then the instrument will return to the home screen. 
    1.  If unsuccessful, an error message will appear. See troubleshooting guide for solutions.
  1. Calibrating %DO
    1. Calibrate <24 hours before sampling.
    1. Connect cable with probe to handheld meter.
    1. Remove the gray slip covering the probe and take out the small circular sponge inside the gray slip.
    1. Lightly dampen the sponge with deionized (DI) water and repalce the sponge back inside the gray slip.
    1. Place the gray slip back over the probe and leave for 10-15 minutes.
    1. After this time, turn on the instrument and allow the DO readings to stabilize. Press teh Cal key.  Highlight Dissolved Oxygen and press enter.
    1. After a moment 'Calibration successful' will display for a few seconds to indicate successful calibration, and then the instrument will return to the home screen.
    1. If unsuccessful, an error message will appear. See troubleshooting guide for solutions.
  1. Cleaning and storage
    1. Once finished using the probe, thoroughly rinse the entire probe head, especially the probe tips with DI water. Wipe off the probe base, careful not to touch the probe tips.
    1. Dampen the sponge inside the gray slip with DI water, then place the slip over the probe.
      1. The Dissolved Oxygen sensor must be in a humid environment at all times or the probe could be damaged.
      1. If you find the sponge to be dry after long storage, moisten the sponge with DI and leave the probe in the gray slip for at least 24 hours before attempting to calibrate DO.
    
***
3. <a name="References"></a> **References**

  *  [YSI Pro2030 User Manual Guide](https://www.ysi.com/File%20Library/Documents/Manuals/605056-YSI-Pro2030-User-Manual-RevC.pdf)
