Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/RAD_Float_Setup.md, before:

# Protocol for the setup and use of RAD Floats

| Created by | Created On | 
| -- | -- |
| Megan Donahue | November 2020 | 

This protocol details the process of setting up small inflatable boats used to carry equipment associated with RAD radon detection in sea water.  These floats carry and secure the RAD radon detector in a watertight pelican case, the RAD Aqua setup, and batteries used to power a bilge pump directing water to the RAD Aqua chamber.  This guide also outlines how to properly arrange the RAD and bilge pump batteries for a safe watertight assembly.  Written instructions transposed from a google drive manual with informational embedded videos. Refer to [this manual](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Op3LV4TpLMrneib9Ot7QqVFCt2Vp_Bm9EVqdMQujmWg/edit#slide=id.p) for additional visuals and instuctions.

## RAD Float setup

1. Assembling the float
    1. Red pontoon is starboard; green pontoon is port
    1. Put a little air into each pontoon
    1. Make sure the pointy end is in all the way to the bow before inflating.  Inflate part-way, then zip shut and inflate the rest of the way
    1. There are protective disks that go around the inflator on each pontoon between the float cover and the pontoon itself.  I.e., the inflator on the pontoon goes through the protective disk, then through the hole in the float cover.  The entire inflation mechanism sticks through the float cover, as seen in the video.
    1. Next, attach the support bar at the back of the float
    1. Be sure to pick up a PVC patch kit in case there is a punture 
1. Installing the platform
    1. Main platform holds the RAD case and battery case
    1. Shelf holds the RAD-aqua and pump
    1. Platform attaches in four places:
    1. Strap attached mid-port of float routes thru the middle of the platform and attaches starboard.
    1. Stern: straps attached to each side of platform goes under the pontoons and clips to float.
    1. crotch strap built into float also secures the platform at the stern, threading thru slot at stern
    1. Note: platform is not well-secured at bow.  If this turns out to be a problem, we’ve included attachment points at front of platform.
    1. Shelf sits across support and (1) clips in to each pontoon and (2) zip ties around the shelf support; 
    1. Small pads velcro to pockets may provide a bit more structure

## RAD and RAD Aqua setup

1. Attach boxes to platform
    1. RAD case:  attaches in front
        1. Clips attached to each side of the SKB box provide tie down points; fast buckles already attached to platform.  
        1. Move buckles to front handle and pice of line of the back if a beam-wise placement is preferable
    1. Battery case:
        1. LIFePO battery case (Pelican):  pelican case lies flat with connector up.  Strap over one side of the connector.  The battery box should not need to be opened while on the water. .
        1. Marine battery case:  case should of a 24M or 27 battery.  A 27 M battery should run for a bit over 24 hours.  You shouldn’t need to open the battery case while underway.  
1. Install support and pump
    1. Pump mounting bracket attaches to shelf using wing nuts
    1. Pump with smaller fitting fits onto ½” PVC pipe
        1. Right now, this is a slip fit.  You might want to PVC-glue this attachment or secure it in some other way to make sure it doesn’t vibrate loose
        1. I leave it to you to connect the RAD-Aqua tubing to the PVC pipe -- there should be an appropriate PVC-to-barb conversion piece
    1. Pump pipe goes through mounting tube and is secured by 2 movable hose clamps and a clothes pin wedge keeps it from spinning
        1. Leave top hose clamp in place after assembly - this will prevent the wire cxn where pump joins cable from being submerged.  We waterproofed this cxn as well as possible, but avoid submerging it
        1. Adjust second hose clamp to appropriate depth
        1. Not in video:  The clothes pin can be wedged between the pump pipe and the pump mount pipe to prevent it from bouncing or turning.  To remove the clothespin, lift up the pipe rather than pulling on the clothespin (string attachment is a weak point)
1. SKB box for RAD + desiccant
    1. Push-to-connect connectors allow you to route 5/16 OD tubing into closed box
    1. Tube supports will prevent collapse/restriction of tubing in connector
    1. Push in to connect firmly; to remove push tube in, hold ring in, then pull out tubing
    1. Connection should be sealed if you add the plugs that you ordered from McMaster-Carr
    1. This connection should be relatively waterproof, but avoid submerging

## Battery setup

1. Attaching a marine battery to the bilge pump
    1. For long deployment, use a Deep Cycle Marine Battery.  The case will fit these battery sizes (US specs):
        1. Group Size 24M (10 ¼ x 6 13/16 x 9 ¾) ~75AH  (45 lbs)  (20.2 hr deployment)
        1. Group Size 27M (12 ½  x 6 13/16 x 9 ¾) ~ 90AH  (52 lbs)  (24.3 hr deployment)
        1. If these sizes aren’t relevant in Moorea, then look for a battery with ~90 amp hours
    1. Add foam blocks around the battery in the box to secure it in place!
    1. Terminal adapters if battery has only posts:  these are in the fix-it kit (larger ⅜” threaded is positive; smaller 5/16” threaded is negative)
    1. Keep the battery case closed for the  deployment, using the connector as the on/off switch; connector is waterproof, but avoid submerging!
1. Using LiFePO batteries for the bilge pump
    1. Three LiPO batteries should run ~8 hours
    1. Leave the case closed during deployment: Connector on the top of the battery pack serves as on/off switch
    1. We are sending you teh 3 LiFePO batteries that we ordered and shipped to CO.  You may want to bring the 3 LiFePO batteries that you already have in LA.  Together, you will have two sets of batteries that should get you through a day-long (but not overnight) field day.
    1. The battery set we sent is labeled.  Be sure to label each of your batteries, as well. It’s important to keep track of each battery individually through time, in case one of the cells goes bad.
1. Moving batteries around
    1. Airline regulations:
        1. carry on batteries that are <100Wh without limit (each of our LiFePO batts exceeds this)
        1. Each person can carry on up to 2 batteries 100-160Wh
        1. 160Wh = 13Ah 12V battery; 100Wh = 8Ah 12V battery
        1. So, our 10Ah 12V battery fall in the 100-160Wh range, and each person can bring 2 batteries in carry-on luggage.
        1. Batteries should have terminals covered and be packed separately from each other. 
        1. I suggest that you keep them in their shipping boxes for carry-on
    1. Shipping batteries
        1. Note the battery label on the outside of the box the batteries came in.  This label must be included on the outside of any package shipping these batteries.  
        1. At FedEx, we could send these batteries as long as we had this label on it, wthout additional handling issues.



## References

- [RAD Float Guide on Google Drive](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Op3LV4TpLMrneib9Ot7QqVFCt2Vp_Bm9EVqdMQujmWg/edit#slide=id.p)

Commit message:

Added video links from google drive

Environmental_Parameter_Protocols/Protocols/RAD_Float_Setup.md, after:

# Protocol for the setup and use of RAD Floats

| Created by | Date Created | Edited by | Date Edited |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| Megan Donahue | November 2020 | Danielle Barnas | July 2021 |

This protocol details the process of setting up small inflatable boats used to carry equipment associated with RAD radon detection in sea water.  These floats carry and secure the RAD radon detector in a watertight pelican case, the RAD Aqua setup, and batteries used to power a bilge pump directing water to the RAD Aqua chamber.  This guide also outlines how to properly arrange the RAD and bilge pump batteries for a safe watertight assembly.  Written instructions transposed from a google drive manual with informational embedded videos. Refer to [this manual](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Op3LV4TpLMrneib9Ot7QqVFCt2Vp_Bm9EVqdMQujmWg/edit#slide=id.p) for additional visuals and instuctions.

## RAD Float setup

1. Required Materials
    1. Refer to [this video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yH4_3kGqQAWyLN4Zu3onXXzKcODOcYv8/view?resourcekey) for a visual of parts required for the RAD Float and bilge pump setup.
1. Assembling the float
    1. Red pontoon is starboard; green pontoon is port
    1. Put a little air into each pontoon
    1. Make sure the pointy end is in all the way to the bow before inflating.  Inflate part-way, then zip shut and inflate the rest of the way
    1. There are protective disks that go around the inflator on each pontoon between the float cover and the pontoon itself.  I.e., the inflator on the pontoon goes through the protective disk, then through the hole in the float cover.  The entire inflation mechanism sticks through the float cover, as seen in the video.
    1. Next, attach the support bar at the back of the float
    1. Be sure to pick up a PVC patch kit in case there is a punture 
    1. Video References:
        1. [Installing pontoons and inflating](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xK1JTTOE-z7hqp0lhhSfCWTpm2d7F9kW/view?resourcekey)
        2. [Attaching shelf support](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xMFXTzZCP4Mu9riHwyQJn4D_vP28AJSK/view?resourcekey)
1. Installing the platform
    1. Main platform holds the RAD case and battery case
    1. Shelf holds the RAD-aqua and pump
    1. Platform attaches in four places:
    1. Strap attached mid-port of float routes thru the middle of the platform and attaches starboard.
    1. Stern: straps attached to each side of platform goes under the pontoons and clips to float.
    1. crotch strap built into float also secures the platform at the stern, threading thru slot at stern
    1. Note: platform is not well-secured at bow.  If this turns out to be a problem, we’ve included attachment points at front of platform.
    1. Shelf sits across support and (1) clips in to each pontoon and (2) zip ties around the shelf support; 
    1. Small pads velcro to pockets may provide a bit more structure
    1. Video References:
        1. [Attach platform A](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xQeWXq8MG_YmsLj9Wpe5YvNw4NzsK042/view?resourcekey)
        2. [Attach platform B](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xSkxgK3FjgeALm-1p3TWphW9XqWCJJZP/view?resourcekey)
        3. [Instal shelf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xilQnEF8-drHYwX6ysiUxzv3zhCYuezx/view?resourcekey)
        4. [Velcro pads](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xq-aczGiIeJQCAsLg38sSktHjPxN6NCE/view?resourcekey)

## RAD and RAD Aqua setup

1. Attach boxes to platform
    1. RAD case:  attaches in front
        1. Clips attached to each side of the SKB box provide tie down points; fast buckles already attached to platform.  
        1. Move buckles to front handle and pice of line of the back if a beam-wise placement is preferable
    1. Battery case:
        1. LIFePO battery case (Pelican):  pelican case lies flat with connector up.  Strap over one side of the connector.  The battery box should not need to be opened while on the water. .
        1. Marine battery case:  case should of a 24M or 27 battery.  A 27 M battery should run for a bit over 24 hours.  You shouldn’t need to open the battery case while underway.  
    1. Video References:
        1. [Attach boxes to platform](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xsoSK9KkJ87XVESPZQYv2O__OTlzyrMb/view?resourcekey)
1. Install support and pump
    1. Pump mounting bracket attaches to shelf using wing nuts
    1. Pump with smaller fitting fits onto ½” PVC pipe
        1. Right now, this is a slip fit.  You might want to PVC-glue this attachment or secure it in some other way to make sure it doesn’t vibrate loose
        1. I leave it to you to connect the RAD-Aqua tubing to the PVC pipe -- there should be an appropriate PVC-to-barb conversion piece
    1. Pump pipe goes through mounting tube and is secured by 2 movable hose clamps and a clothes pin wedge keeps it from spinning
        1. Leave top hose clamp in place after assembly - this will prevent the wire cxn where pump joins cable from being submerged.  We waterproofed this cxn as well as possible, but avoid submerging it
        1. Adjust second hose clamp to appropriate depth
        1. Not in video:  The clothes pin can be wedged between the pump pipe and the pump mount pipe to prevent it from bouncing or turning.  To remove the clothespin, lift up the pipe rather than pulling on the clothespin (string attachment is a weak point)
    1. Video References:
        1. [Attaching the pump support](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xzBkHhGr61zlz454TdFK08hlt7uSqo70/view?resourcekey)
        2. [Attaching the pump](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1y0DevGKCWb6v4jYC-NGWzuvRlfICBDyC/view?resourcekey)
1. SKB box for RAD + desiccant
    1. Push-to-connect connectors allow you to route 5/16 OD tubing into closed box
    1. Tube supports will prevent collapse/restriction of tubing in connector
    1. Push in to connect firmly; to remove push tube in, hold ring in, then pull out tubing
    1. Connection should be sealed if you add the plugs that you ordered from McMaster-Carr
    1. This connection should be relatively waterproof, but avoid submerging
    1. Video References:
        1. [RAD and desiccant](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yB3UuBtYlUOrraAYxFWs7ASlZsfVbsUd/view?resourcekey)

## Battery setup

1. Attaching a marine battery to the bilge pump
    1. For long deployment, use a Deep Cycle Marine Battery.  The case will fit these battery sizes (US specs):
        1. Group Size 24M (10 ¼ x 6 13/16 x 9 ¾) ~75AH  (45 lbs)  (20.2 hr deployment)
        1. Group Size 27M (12 ½  x 6 13/16 x 9 ¾) ~ 90AH  (52 lbs)  (24.3 hr deployment)
        1. If these sizes aren’t relevant in Moorea, then look for a battery with ~90 amp hours
    1. Add foam blocks around the battery in the box to secure it in place!
    1. Terminal adapters if battery has only posts:  these are in the fix-it kit (larger ⅜” threaded is positive; smaller 5/16” threaded is negative)
    1. Keep the battery case closed for the  deployment, using the connector as the on/off switch; connector is waterproof, but avoid submerging!
    1. Video References:
        1. [Marine battery hookup](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1y95DPgVlptmCKyzUKCNOShWi86c9YFvx/view?resourcekey)
1. Using LiFePO batteries for the bilge pump
    1. Three LiPO batteries should run ~8 hours
    1. Leave the case closed during deployment: Connector on the top of the battery pack serves as on/off switch
    1. We are sending you teh 3 LiFePO batteries that we ordered and shipped to CO.  You may want to bring the 3 LiFePO batteries that you already have in LA.  Together, you will have two sets of batteries that should get you through a day-long (but not overnight) field day.
    1. The battery set we sent is labeled.  Be sure to label each of your batteries, as well. It’s important to keep track of each battery individually through time, in case one of the cells goes bad.
    1. Video References:
        1. [Battery case assembly](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1k4DcmS5J5tSDGEqLAetdhnl0eA9pnk8v/view?resourcekey)
        2. [Battery case safety](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iI4TMqGEbfIpZPMlG53o-g5TKegUleuU/view?resourcekey)
1. Moving batteries around
    1. Airline regulations:
        1. carry on batteries that are <100Wh without limit (each of our LiFePO batts exceeds this)
        1. Each person can carry on up to 2 batteries 100-160Wh
        1. 160Wh = 13Ah 12V battery; 100Wh = 8Ah 12V battery
        1. So, our 10Ah 12V battery fall in the 100-160Wh range, and each person can bring 2 batteries in carry-on luggage.
        1. Batteries should have terminals covered and be packed separately from each other. 
        1. I suggest that you keep them in their shipping boxes for carry-on
    1. Shipping batteries
        1. Note the battery label on the outside of the box the batteries came in.  This label must be included on the outside of any package shipping these batteries.  
        1. At FedEx, we could send these batteries as long as we had this label on it, wthout additional handling issues.
    1. Charging batteries: Tenergy
        1. Follow [this video tutorial](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yRqrPMWjFNah2UNGytGk02W3qRBTr0oT/view?resourcekey) for using a tenergy charger for the LiFePO batteries


## References

- [RAD Float Guide on Google Drive](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Op3LV4TpLMrneib9Ot7QqVFCt2Vp_Bm9EVqdMQujmWg/edit#slide=id.p)
